
### Clasroom Policies

##### Final Letter Grades
A weighted average of various assessments (see above) determines your final letter grade. These are the cutoffs when assigning your final letter grades. 

| Final Average  | Letter Grade |
| :--- | :--- |
| 100% - 95% | A |
| 94% - 90% | A- |
| 89% - 87% | B+ |
| 86% - 84% | B |
| 83% - 80% | B- |
| 79% - 77% | C+ |
| 76% - 74% | C |
| 73% - 70% | C- |
| 69% - 67% | D+ |
| 66% - 64% | D |
| 63% - 60% | D- |
| 59% and below | F |



##### Attendance and Participation
Regular attendance and participation in class are required. Attendance, to be graded out of 10 "participation points," applies toward your final grade. I deduct **2 points** for each unexcused absence, **1 point** for being late, and **1 point** for engaging in activities that can disrupt others: scrolling through your phone, texting, playing games on your laptop, etc.

- Participation points is allowed to become negative, which will adversely impact your overall grade.

Furthermore, if a student misses more than 6 class meetings (15% of the semester) without a verified excuse or accommodation, they will be automatically withdrawn from the course (W) or assigned a failing grade (F). Exceptions may be granted for verified emergencies with appropriate documentation.

- Excused absences (e.g., medical, family emergency, etc.) may require documentation and do not count toward this limit.



##### During Class: Phones Off!
Phones are a common distraction during lectures. Please turn your phones off, or at least put your phones on silent during lecture. If you are caught using your phone during class and/or lab, it will affect your participation points.


### Academic Integrity

I adhere to the university's [academic integrity policy](https://www.pugetsound.edu/academic-integrity). If a student is caught misrepresenting their work, then  at minimum, they will receive an automatic zero for the assignment and the case will be reported upstream, which may affect the student's athletic and scholarship eligibilities. To avoid such problems, use common sense and when in doubt, ask me for advice. Examples of academic dishonesty include, but are not limited to, the following:

- Copying the work of another student or former student.
- Copying work found online or on generative AI platforms (see section below for expanded discussion into AI assistance).
- Communication of any form during exams.

##### AI Usage Policy
In this course, all work that students turn in must be produced by the students themselves. Any direct use of AI-generated material within an assignment constitutes academic dishonesty. Students may use AI in indirect ways, such as consultation for brainstorming purposes or as a study assistant. However, the student should be forewarned that AI tools are frequently inaccurate and students are responsible for their own study processes. Further, AI-generated material must not be copied or paraphrased into an assignment. If you have questions about the use of AI in this course, please ask your professor.

In select courses, I have created an "AI Tutor" that has been trained on our course materials. You can use this AI tutor freely to get help on assignments, to brainstorm for ideas, and to review for exams. If an AI Tutor has been created for this class, I will make it available through canvas. Limit your AI usage to just this bot, as other AI tools can lead you astray from the course materials.

When used _properly_, ChatGPT, Gemini, and other generative AI are powerful tools and can be a great help in understanding the technical contents of this course. Because of that, on surface, I am not opposed to their use for my classes. However, there are clear boundaries that, when crossed, could lead to severe consequences for students. Here are some do's-and-don'ts guidelines on how to properly use these tools for this class:
- **Do** use it to be your personal tutor, and that is as far as it should go. Use it to explain concepts you don't fully grasp. When helping with homework, prompt it with things like, "Without providing me with any code solution ..."
- **Do** use it to explain code to you. Is there a piece of code we went over in class that is hard to understand? Paste it into the prompt, and have it explain line-by-line as well as holistically on how everything comes together.
- **Do** use it to explain your errors to you. Paste in your code and the errors you receive when compiling or running it. Have it comment on any issues without simply giving you the fix.
- **Do** use it to explain any mathematics that you might need to know for an assignment or lab.
- **Don't** turn anything in that was generated by AI tools. In general, copying-and-pasting (even with superficial modifications) without citation is considered plagiarism, and will be treated as such.
- **Don't** forget that you will still need to demonstrate proficiency on all your exams to pass the course. Doing well on homework assignments is only a necessary (albeit insufficient) condition to pass the course!



### Late Policy, Extensions, and Makeup

##### Late Deduction
For each day that a homework assignment is late beyond the due date (or the adjusted date according to your accommodations), I assess a $$3^d\%$$ deduction, where $$d$$ is the number of days late including weekends. 

##### Deadline Extensions
Ample time is provided to complete each assignment, and I do not assign work that has not already been covered in lectures. Generally, no extensions be will given for assignments. The exception is when you can provide documentation for unique circumstances, or if you have student accommodations. As a general rule of thumb, come talk to me and explain what might be going on.

##### Exam Policies

- Makeup: I expect you to be present on the day of exams. I do not offer makeups unless you can _document_ an extenuating circumstance. The following do not count as extenuating circumstances: experiencing a cold, overslept, mental-health day, family visiting, traveling, etc. Exam days are listed on my course calendar and _will not_ change. Plan accordingly!

- Final Exam: You must show up on the scheduled day of the final exam. These dates are set by the university and cannot be rescheduled. Please do not ask for exceptions.

- The following items are prohibited to use on the day of exams: Phones (even with Wifi disabled), headphones, and other mobile devices.

- Student Accommodations: It is *your* responsibility to inform me if you will be taking exams at the accommodations office well-ahead of time, so that I have time to provide exam copies to their office.
